README.md, before:

# DB2ERD

**Updated for .NET 8**

## Project Overview

DB2ERD is a lightweight command‑line tool that reads table metadata from a Microsoft SQL Server database and produces a PlantUML description of the schema.  It is useful for DBAs, architects and developers who want to keep Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERDs) in sync with their database without using heavyweight modelling tools.

Example Output:

![Example diagram](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dsphz/DB2ERD/main/DB2ERD/ExampleDiagrams/AdventureWorks2014%20-%20HumanResources%20Schema.png)

More Examples Here: [DB2ERD/ExampleDiagrams](DB2ERD/ExampleDiagrams)

PlantUML is an open-source tool allowing users to create diagrams from a plain text language.  You can find more about it here: https://plantuml.com

The PlantUML website also has an online server which you can find [here](https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/hLLVJzim47_Ff_0qQQDe3ErbGgYg41HMDiOGhVOwNU9hSyAnkxCDpGRVVKxAm43CMA5zY9hVdzxlVBQp7Uk0dQzKzahYb3IAELC5NFyumtfjqHFzVD0lZ3Ay_JhVslhu8Vny4w11VxDzEn2B_cO-k55F3IFDz8twMWhjvu7qHXPU-4h72fmstw2eK19iC1Q6PPVKGQwmKQ9sv6gn4Fs-M9ky4nSbEUo9mI3BbXmnyXNeKxJ6Su7s_RYagHEzx7Scn9tOeaKEXwAtBHpfchGBfYTVWfKGVsiLnr1Xmz3dm4K976FZfgiJMX9SUCRWlfOfwAkHD2MKGt0jBiEpvLmbCWnn3kmgrDr1Rk5b6bk1KlyVvnCRFqyJLgXxlvehKoDsLhthBMcqThzTqMNbgQ8T6GtgS7ZignmvLT-HcP4EHWdu6yz0qw_MxDZ8Da99o0sp9fcY7k4vghYjCV6poIVaLB9bkyIkZFjrfv_0v42D7JXlMuS7Iu9Q8dT28s9C6Oz11MkK1mfc3PwJY-7lKBJ9HiQpJIKRKt5sX72EZxBsF3Dgb_WZDXSpJx91lAQV7aa6SZD3BpDNjuC_8kiCroiCsYgxwV5Z9CrqmJWE6H6ZOoDcl4YRJg1-mVwSWiEz4lGCxnVI4UVqcb8PZNKCX9eE6CD8wAAEMlUil64pxe6Mr10xayQ4ZfpHlVPeMmxkXqJhbwVceb9FJF1MhA-lY-7oTfiqSOADQhUbBMbkioUF_DNbniRbPVhAU9PJn7-kJxjFilI8hbP5lAJ_akwWbhvIsHy0).

Inspiration For this project was from this blogpost: https://raphael-leger.medium.com/automatically-generating-up-to-date-database-diagrams-with-typeorm-d1279a20545e

## Prerequisites

- [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/)
- Access to a Microsoft SQL Server instance (2012 or later) with permissions to query `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` and `sys` tables
- Ability to create files in the working directory for the generated diagram

## Building

Use the [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/) and run:

```bash
dotnet build
```

## Configuration

The application reads its settings from an `appsettings.json` file placed next to the executable. The file must define a connection string and the SQL query used to list the tables that will be diagrammed.

Example `DB2ERD/appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "ConnectionString": "Data Source=MACHINENAME;Initial Catalog=AdventureWorks2014;User ID=sa;Password=MYPASSWORD;Connect Timeout=30;",
  "TableQuery": "SELECT schema_id, SCHEMA_NAME(schema_id) as [schema_name], name as table_name, object_id, '['+SCHEMA_NAME(schema_id)+'].['+name+']' AS full_name FROM sys.tables where is_ms_shipped = 0"
}
```

Update these values to match your environment before running the program.

## Usage

Run the executable with options to override values from the configuration file:

```bash
dotnet DB2ERD.dll \
    --config appsettings.json \
    --connection-string "Server=.;Database=MyDb;Trusted_Connection=True;" \
    --table-query "SELECT ..." \
    --output diagram.puml
```

Or in PowerShell:

```powershell
PS> .\DB2ERD.exe `
    --config appsettings.json `
    --connection-string "Server=.;Database=MyDb;Trusted_Connection=True;" `
    --table-query "SELECT ..." `
    --output diagram.puml
```

If an option is omitted, the value from the specified configuration file is used.

## Output

The tool writes the PlantUML description to a file (for example `diagram.puml`).  This text file contains the tables and their relationships in PlantUML syntax.  You can feed the file to the [PlantUML](https://plantuml.com/) command line utility or any compatible viewer to generate visual diagrams in formats such as PNG or SVG.

## Supported Databases

The current implementation targets Microsoft SQL Server exclusively.  The code could be adapted for other relational databases, but out‑of‑the‑box support is limited to SQL Server.

Commit message:

Ignore plantuml jar and document acquisition

README.md, after:

# DB2ERD

**Updated for .NET 8**

## Project Overview

DB2ERD is a lightweight command‑line tool that reads table metadata from a Microsoft SQL Server database and produces a PlantUML description of the schema.  It is useful for DBAs, architects and developers who want to keep Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERDs) in sync with their database without using heavyweight modelling tools.

Example Output:

![Example diagram](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dsphz/DB2ERD/main/DB2ERD/ExampleDiagrams/AdventureWorks2014%20-%20HumanResources%20Schema.png)

More Examples Here: [DB2ERD/ExampleDiagrams](DB2ERD/ExampleDiagrams)

PlantUML is an open-source tool allowing users to create diagrams from a plain text language.  You can find more about it here: https://plantuml.com

The PlantUML website also has an online server which you can find [here](https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/hLLVJzim47_Ff_0qQQDe3ErbGgYg41HMDiOGhVOwNU9hSyAnkxCDpGRVVKxAm43CMA5zY9hVdzxlVBQp7Uk0dQzKzahYb3IAELC5NFyumtfjqHFzVD0lZ3Ay_JhVslhu8Vny4w11VxDzEn2B_cO-k55F3IFDz8twMWhjvu7qHXPU-4h72fmstw2eK19iC1Q6PPVKGQwmKQ9sv6gn4Fs-M9ky4nSbEUo9mI3BbXmnyXNeKxJ6Su7s_RYagHEzx7Scn9tOeaKEXwAtBHpfchGBfYTVWfKGVsiLnr1Xmz3dm4K976FZfgiJMX9SUCRWlfOfwAkHD2MKGt0jBiEpvLmbCWnn3kmgrDr1Rk5b6bk1KlyVvnCRFqyJLgXxlvehKoDsLhthBMcqThzTqMNbgQ8T6GtgS7ZignmvLT-HcP4EHWdu6yz0qw_MxDZ8Da99o0sp9fcY7k4vghYjCV6poIVaLB9bkyIkZFjrfv_0v42D7JXlMuS7Iu9Q8dT28s9C6Oz11MkK1mfc3PwJY-7lKBJ9HiQpJIKRKt5sX72EZxBsF3Dgb_WZDXSpJx91lAQV7aa6SZD3BpDNjuC_8kiCroiCsYgxwV5Z9CrqmJWE6H6ZOoDcl4YRJg1-mVwSWiEz4lGCxnVI4UVqcb8PZNKCX9eE6CD8wAAEMlUil64pxe6Mr10xayQ4ZfpHlVPeMmxkXqJhbwVceb9FJF1MhA-lY-7oTfiqSOADQhUbBMbkioUF_DNbniRbPVhAU9PJn7-kJxjFilI8hbP5lAJ_akwWbhvIsHy0).

Inspiration For this project was from this blogpost: https://raphael-leger.medium.com/automatically-generating-up-to-date-database-diagrams-with-typeorm-d1279a20545e

## Prerequisites

- [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/)
- Access to a Microsoft SQL Server instance (2012 or later) with permissions to query `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` and `sys` tables
- Ability to create files in the working directory for the generated diagram
- PlantUML to render diagrams. It can be installed via a package manager (e.g. `apt install plantuml` or `brew install plantuml`) or by downloading the `plantuml.jar` from [https://plantuml.com/download](https://plantuml.com/download).

## Building

Use the [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/) and run:

```bash
dotnet build
```

## Configuration

The application reads its settings from an `appsettings.json` file placed next to the executable. The file must define a connection string and the SQL query used to list the tables that will be diagrammed.

Example `DB2ERD/appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "ConnectionString": "Data Source=MACHINENAME;Initial Catalog=AdventureWorks2014;User ID=sa;Password=MYPASSWORD;Connect Timeout=30;",
  "TableQuery": "SELECT schema_id, SCHEMA_NAME(schema_id) as [schema_name], name as table_name, object_id, '['+SCHEMA_NAME(schema_id)+'].['+name+']' AS full_name FROM sys.tables where is_ms_shipped = 0"
}
```

Update these values to match your environment before running the program.

## Usage

Run the executable with options to override values from the configuration file:

```bash
dotnet DB2ERD.dll \
    --config appsettings.json \
    --connection-string "Server=.;Database=MyDb;Trusted_Connection=True;" \
    --table-query "SELECT ..." \
    --output diagram.puml
```

Or in PowerShell:

```powershell
PS> .\DB2ERD.exe `
    --config appsettings.json `
    --connection-string "Server=.;Database=MyDb;Trusted_Connection=True;" `
    --table-query "SELECT ..." `
    --output diagram.puml
```

If an option is omitted, the value from the specified configuration file is used.

## Output

The tool writes the PlantUML description to a file (for example `diagram.puml`).  This text file contains the tables and their relationships in PlantUML syntax.  You can feed the file to the [PlantUML](https://plantuml.com/) command line utility or any compatible viewer to generate visual diagrams in formats such as PNG or SVG.

## Supported Databases

The current implementation targets Microsoft SQL Server exclusively.  The code could be adapted for other relational databases, but out‑of‑the‑box support is limited to SQL Server.
